the Air Force as a career.
Very early on, my brother was already in the Air Force, and all I wanted to do was be a pilot in the Air Force.
So I went into the Air Force in the Corps, and all I wanted to do was fly.
I wanted to be an aerospace engineer and go fly jets.
As it turned out, my eyes weren't good enough, and my junior year, I got a contract my junior year that I busted my physical for flying, but was qualified to get on active duty, and took it again and busted it again for eyes.
So I went on active duty out to Vandenberg Air Force Base as an engineer launching satellites.
And I graduated with my master's in 69, went on active duty.
And in 71, I took the physical again, and at that time they were waving to 2050.
It's amazing what happens when a war goes on.
So I qualified and went off to pilot training.
And what did being an Aggie in terms of background, how did that help you?
Oh, it helped me tremendously in pilot training, and I've talked to a lot of Ags about this also.
You're much better prepared for the environment, for the pressure environment.
Pilot training is a mental thing more than anything else.
You're not afraid of hurting yourself.
You're afraid of not doing well.
You know, it's kind of like the old fighter pilot's prayer, oh, God, don't let me screw up.
And so you're used to, I think you're a little bit better prepared for the mental pressure, and you can separate the bullshit from the reality.
And, you know, Aggies in general do fairly well in pilot training.
You are in the Corps all four years.
Was there someone that you, as a junior or senior, you began to turn to for advice?
Any faculty member?
Yeah, Dr. Oh, shoot.
Dr. Rodenberger in the Aero Department.
The road.
Yeah.
Turned to him, and then he became the chairman of my committee when I stayed and got my master's.
They're a bunch of good profs over Dr. Lowy, or not even Dr. Professor Lowy in the Air Department.
Yeah, some good folks over there.
But Dr. Rodenberger was probably the key guy I dealt with on the family.
As you are heading toward your senior year,
You're still in the same outfit.
What core responsibilities did you have that fourth year?
I was a flight officer my senior year.
Again, the academic load was such that anything beyond that was, I mean, I was there.
I was paying for my own college education.
All right.
Of all the courses you took, which ones were the most important?
Looking back on it now.
The most important?
Well, actually, the automation courses were actually, to me now, the most important.
As it turned out, when I graduated from college with a master's degree in aerospace engineering in 1969, there were 40,000 unemployed aerospace engineers in the country.
I don't know if you remember back at that time, we'd already landed on the moon.
There was a tremendous winding down of the aerospace industry, and there were even
stories on the nightly news of PhD aerospace engineers flipping burgers at McDonald's.
And so I went into the Air Force and then of course ended up going to pilot training.
Probably that's about the closest I ever came to aerospace engineering was flying jets in the Air Force.
But I took my first automation course in my junior year and really got turned on by automation because of the things you could do.
It ended up my
Both my senior project and my master's revolved around modeling, computer modeling of different things.
And computers became a hobby and now I'm a vice president of an engineering company and I'm in charge of all the systems development.
So automation has become part of the major part of my career.
Were we, for that time, were we comparatively up to date?
Oh, absolutely.
We had some of the best IBM
equipment, it was a, when I started we had a 70s, 7094 was the mainframe and then we got a 360 and the 360 was really the hot engine at the time.
We had a super computer facility, the DPC, data processing center, DPC.
And IBM had put a lot of people on the campus.
I can remember a lot of professors that were former IBM or so.
And it was a top notch place and got a really good automation education.
As you, looking back again, were there any omissions that A&M didn't do that we should have done?
No, I think it was, if anybody would say that would be maybe not taking advantage of what was there.
I thought it was a tremendous education.
And it was appropriately,
real world as compared to being entirely theoretical.
Which I think was a very positive thing.
A&M produced people who could go out into the world and pick up a wrench and make something happen.
And even today, my son graduated with a degree in mechanical engineering technology, which is a major program at A&M.
The MET people, everybody's jumping after the MET people.
Of course, the downturn of the economy recently has kind of messed things up.
But people look upon graduates in that program and from A&M in general as people who can go out and make things happen, not who are going to sit and mull over what's the latest theoretical thing.
A&M produces leaders.
A&M produces people who make things happen.
Senior ring.
Oh, big deal.
How much did it cost?
$37.50.
I probably haven't said that number and I can't remember when.
How did you feel when you put it on?
Oh, God, you feel it's just the greatest day in the world.
You go over the association and you get your ring and you put it on.
There's a little story in our family.
My brother bought my ring.
He's class of 57, I'm class of 60.
He bought my ring.
Then my nephew, John McDonald, who's class of 93, when he graduated, I bought his ring.
Then John bought, John is, John went into the Marine Corps and got out and now he's a, he's a manager with Dell in Austin.
Doing very well.
um then John bought my oldest son Doug's ring for class of 99.
Never heard of that before.
And now here shortly
Doug will buy Nick's ring.
Nick gets his ring this semester.
In fact, he just called me the other day.
He said, Dad, I can't believe it.
This semester I get my ring in my boots.
So this is our tradition in our family.
Each one buys the next one, so there's an unbroken chain of people buying the rings.
Some good ring stories you have to share?
Somebody that saw it in some unusual place, you lost it.
No, God forbid they ever lost it.
The interesting thing, I use the ring a lot in recruiting.
You know, as I talk to high school students and such and talk about the importance of the ring.
And even, particularly if we've got females present, they're wearing the ring and how important the ring is to everybody.
People who, it's obviously another thing on the inside looking at it, you can't explain it.
Outside looking at it, you can't understand it.
They don't understand why we hold the ring as important as we do and why it's such a big deal to get it and why it's all the same.
There's no differences.
And see, I think that's the key part.
Oh, yeah.
that doesn't matter what year, doesn't matter what you major, it's recognizable.
It's recognized.
And like I said, I can remember times being in Japan or Germany or all over the world and seeing a ring and walking up to somebody.
In fact, I was with some folks in Japan one time and I
saw a ring and went over and introduced myself to the guy and we talked for a few minutes and came back to my friends and they say, oh, you know that guy?
I said, no.
They said, why'd you go talk to him?
I said, because he's an Aggie.
You know, it doesn't make any difference.
There's no class distinction or anything.
You're a meeting friend.
In your years of active duty, what other schools had the ring, I guess the academies?
The academies do.
They refer to the Air Force Academy
people as ring knockers, you know, I don't know that there's, well, they're not.
They don't compare to Aggies.
And that's a whole different thing too, is my life in the military, the relationship with Aggies is totally different than graduates of other military schools.
It has to do with the class camaraderie and everything else.
Senior boots, how much did they cost?
$100.
And where did you get them?
Got them from Lupo's.
Did you ever meet Lupo?
Old Army Lou?
Did I say Lupo?
Not Lupo's.
They're at Northgate.
Yeah, Northgate.
God, wait a minute.
Oh, boy.
Yeah.
My brain's gone dead.
Yeah, my brain's gone dead.
Not lupos, but... We've been making them for 100 years.
Yeah.
We'll get it later.
Yeah, we'll get back to it.
You know, I got them there.
I got them made.
Went in and... Holix.
Holix, yeah.
Holix.
Went in there, picked out the leather.
Had really dark leather.
The leather's, oh, shoot.
It's a dark, dark color.
And my son wore those boots, and my youngest son just took them and was going to wear those boots.
So they're still going.
But, yeah, went into Hollicks, had them made.
Now, did you buy a saber as a senior?
Yeah, I bought a saber.
All of us in the outfit bought sabers.
Where'd you get them?
Got them at Northgate at...
I got mine at the University Bookstore.
There was a bookstore at Northgate.
Yeah.
One of the ones up there, I bought it there.
Did that cost much?
I think the Sabre was 75 to 100 bucks.
I can't remember for sure.
Did you keep it?
Oh, yes.
And both of my sons have used it.
In fact, it's at A&M right now.
When you go through Final Review as a junior, what's the feeling?
Well, that's just an awesome feeling because you know you're going to go back and put your boots on.
Final Review is one of those bittersweet things.
I don't know that today is like it was then.
I can remember guys crying at Final Review.
The seniors.
In those days, the seniors,
It's a little bit different from today.
The seniors formed the line at the far south end of the drill field, and you marched by.
And as each outfit marched by, the seniors would step forward and salute their outfit.
And I can remember guys stepping out with tears in their eyes as you marched by.
Our senior year, what we did is all of us in the front rank wore sabers.
And so we all did a saber salute as we passed in review.
All right.
Your senior year, who came for final review for you, your family and loved ones?
My father and my stepmother and my wife-to-be and my uncle, Charlie Gaynor.
whose Gaynor Haldarm 5 is named after his father, who was Senator Gaynor.
And my brother, of course, who was in the Air Force at the time.
What were your thoughts on that day?
What did you think your future was going to be?
Well, I knew I was going into military, and I knew Vietnam was going on.
So, you know, I knew it was going to involve something like that.
But not with apprehension.
I think there was great enthusiasm and anticipation about getting out in the world.
And in my case, I knew I was staying there to get my master's degree.
So it was just going back to school, really.
It was just getting out of the court and becoming a civilian, becoming a non-reg.
Was the weather OK?
Oh, just great in College Station all the time.
I mean, and the interesting thing, of course, I talked about the fact that in the dorms when I lived my freshman year where they were on air condition.
Sure.
And, geez.
Was that something else in September or in May?
I keep remembering in Houston when I was at Rice, Alvin Van Black, who was one of the DJs for KTRH, a lady called one day and said, Alvin, how did y'all live in Houston before air conditioning?
And he said, more slowly.
Well, in my case, we had an attic fan.
Yeah, there you go.
And if you were rich, you had an attic fan.
That's it.
I can remember another little side story, real quick thing.
I can remember in the summertime when my window would have the window open and the wind would come in there and he would collect flies.
And there was this lizard that used to get on the screen.
Every morning, the lizard would be there and he'd work his way down the screen cleaning off the flies.
People air-conditioned don't understand those stories.
Commencement.
Why are A&M Commencements special also?
Well, you know what's interesting?
When I went to my son's graduation, and mine the same way, you know, you don't see weird, I mean, of course now you're starting to see some students come in with weird stuff on their hats and that sort of stuff, but you still, they're dressed in caps and gowns and everything, and of course you've got the Corps graduating in uniform.
I think a degree, the kids who go to A&M, the degree means something.
They went to A&M because it means something.
There's that conservative attitude at A&M.
Commencement is a major thing.
And let me tell you an interesting story.
My son's graduation, there was a woman from Atlanta who was the speaker.
And she said, when she stepped up the podium, she said, what's up?
And everybody just kind of sat there and looked at her.
And I guess on some other campuses, the whole student body would have done a WhatsApp back.
Nobody said a word.
And she said it again.
And she said it one more time.
And nobody responded.
Because I think to them, this was a solemn moment.
I'm graduating from college.
My parents have done this.
And they're all here.
And my family's here.
And I'm not going to make an idiot out of myself.
And it was really an interesting thing.
Did you ever hear of any hijinks or pranks at an A&M commencement?
I never did.
No, never have, never have.
It's a big moment.
It's like going to church.
And your diploma was in that tube.
My diploma was in that tube, yeah.
And nobody walked out.
No, no.
See, that's one of the problems now.
I know, I know.
I've noticed that.
People get their degree and walk out.
Yeah, I ran into that at Missouri in large numbers.
Yeah.
I skipped over one question a while ago.
Muster, did you go to Muster on campus?
Oh, absolutely.
Absolutely.
Muster in those days was held out in front of the administration building, and you'd sit out there on the grass, and the ceremony was there.
Oh, absolutely.
I mean, that was like, again, like going to church.
I mean, that was, you went to Muster.
Is that part of building Aggie spirit?
Oh, absolutely.
What are the events that contribute most to building that spirit?
Well, Silver Taps and Muster, Trothman, the Corps, the Band.
All those special things.
Probably silver taps and muster.
I talk about that a lot in recruiting.
You know, I talk about silver taps and the fact that everybody comes out and there's total silence.
You know, you've got thousands and thousands of students in absolute silence.
And the fact that the buglers play taps three times to the north, to the west, and to the south.
And they don't play it to the east because the sun will never rise on those Aggies again.
And they kind of, the people I'm telling this to, it kind of shocks them, you know, and you can see tears starting to come to their eyes and everything else.
And then Muster, of course, talking about, you know, calling out the names and somebody answers here to signify that they're present in spirit.
And nobody else does anything like that.
Um... Um...
And it's kind of interesting.
I was talking to people down at New Mexico Military Institute.
They have a kind of ceremony like that where once a year they call out the names of all, and they turn out a candle or something like that to signify they're gone.
It's exactly the opposite thing at Muster.
You say here that they're there.
You know, they're there in spirit, that they're always there.
I gotta tell you a story.
At Muster, about 10 years ago here in town,
We were all assembling to get ready, and there was a young woman I saw there, and she was kind of walking around like she didn't know anybody.
And I walked up to her and I said, I'm Doug Farada, class of 67, and she said, my name is Morley Johnson.
And I said, well, she didn't give me a class year.
So I said, you know, you didn't go to A&M?
And she said, no, I didn't.
I said, well, why are you here at Muster?
And she said, well, I've known some Aggies and heard about Muster.
And I said, well, would you like to join us?
And she said, yes.
And she sat with us.
And we told her about Muster and Silver Taps and 12th Man and the band and Midnight Yell practice and all that other stuff.
And then came the formal part of the ceremony.
And we stood up.
And the first name called was Knox T. Johnson, class of 50.
And she answered, here for her father.
I still worry, go.
Heavy, heavy.
I mean, no.
She knew.
that her dad wanted her to do that.
Oh, my, yes.
All right, let me give you a lot to people.
And one of the things that we do here is that, like this young man who called tonight, Lynn Ott, talking about her son, Alex, who's interested in A&M, we'll invite them to muster.
Sure, sure.
And I had a young woman last year that came to muster who, you know, was...
didn't know where she wanted to go to school, and after that she came up to me and she said, thank you very much for letting me come.
Why are Aggies so loyal to the institution?
I liken it to a cult or a religion, you know, and that's really the closest you can get.
I think it has to do with values, it has to do with
a common background.
I think it has to do a lot with the rural nature of the school.
When you go to A&M, that's it.
That's your universe.
And you make such good friends there.
It's such a wholesome, great environment.
But it is amazing looking into loyalty.
I guess it's one of those great unexplainable things, but it's almost like a religion.
I don't know.
It's one of those unexplainable things.
It has to do a lot with the traditions, the reunions and all those other things.
All right, this same kind of question.
What did you learn at A&M that's been important in your life?
I learned how to deal with people.
Going through the Corps,
makes you learn what's important and what's not important.
It makes you learn how to get along with people in adverse situations, which has helped me through my entire life, whether it be in pilot training or survival school or different experiences I came through in the military.
You learn how to handle stress.
You learn how to get along with people.
how to get the most out of people.
I find it invaluable in my job today, the people that work for me, the skills that I learned.
You learn to be, you learn that rank and position isn't that important, it's how you deal with people.
Bottom line.
If you were a consultant,
to advise the A&M leadership today about what they should do for A&M's continuing growth and progress?
Don't let the Corps go away.
Okay, how do you do that?
The thing that makes A&M different is the Corps.
If the Corps goes away, A&M becomes TU on Abrazos.
But how do they keep it from it?
Well, I think, you know, I recruit for the Corps.
I think there are enough young men and women who want to go into the Corps that if they allow them into the school, I think the school needs to make special exception.
I mean, the role, Dr. Bowen had said one time when he was out here that the role of A&M is to produce leaders.
And the core is the epitome of a leadership laboratory.
I think special exceptions need to be made for kids who want to go into the core to make sure that the core stays.
You know, you may not have the highest academic standards or whatever, but academic standards alone are not what's important if you're building leaders.
If you're building geeks, then maybe you just look at academics like the Air Force Academy is doing.
The Air Force Academy has gotten out of the leadership business.
What else other than the Corps?
Don't let 2020 run away with itself.
What do you give up in getting to 2020?
What do you throw away that's made A&M unique?
How large should the institution become?
No larger than it is now.
Okay.
Then how do you select?
Well, you've got to continue doing the same thing you're doing.
You look at students.
You don't look at grades alone.
You look at the cross-section, the total cross-section, what they've done.
You know, have they played sports?
Have they been involved in student government?
Have they volunteered?
Whatever.
You look at the cross-section.
You look at talents that will make them good leaders.
And it's...
You know, there's a tremendous pressure, of course, in the state of Texas to get more people into A&M with the number of people that apply annually.
But if you open it up, you get an Ohio State or you get, you know, you get just this huge, massive humanity and you lose the quality.
There's a lot of good places people can go to school in Texas.
You know, don't ruin A&M to let in anymore.
I wouldn't.
It's about as big probably now as it ought to get.
I wish it were not as big.
I wish it was not as big.
But, you know, we can handle it at this size.
I wouldn't want to see it get any bigger.
But don't let the goals of 2020, the academic goals of 2020 ruin what has made A&M unique.
It is...
You probably don't have academically the smartest people in the world graduating from A&M.
You know, there may be other institutions that are smarter.
But I think the product that A&M produces now, the leadership potential, the human interpersonal skills, everything else, the rural environment, produce a type of person that can go into any environment and succeed with the right kind of values.
I would hate to see us just go for the goals of 2020 and throw that away.
I agree.
If you could make a major gift to A&M, somebody hands you a million dollar check... I'd give it to the Corps.
And what would you have them do with it?
I'd have them set up scholarships.
One of the things I think that needs to happen for the Corps
is one of the things i'm disappointed with in the corps is that we have to admit a lot of people right now that probably shouldn't be in the corps i look at kids that are obviously overweight i looked at you know some other things like that that this is a military type environment it's not the military it's a military type environment that they probably shouldn't be there i would love to see it where the corps had enough money to offer scholarships to the right kind of kids and bring them in where where maybe the corps could be self-endowing and pay
for the school, that would take a lot more than a million dollars.
And for us out here, one of the things that's a critical thing for us, the kids in the Corps get the Soros normally the freshman, sophomore year.
The problem for us in New Mexico is that you get a kid coming up on a junior year who's gonna go DNC, like Tony Camilli, who was commander of E1.
Outstanding young man.
But then he's got full out of state tuition for his junior and senior year.
It's a big deal to us out of state.
We've got Tony Camilli who was there.
We've got Ben Abruzzo who was commander of N1.
We've got a bunch of kids there now in the Corps, not all of whom are going in the military.
I just sent in 75 names.
last month of kids who are interested in going to A&M and being in the Corps.
Hey, that's great.
We do a really good job here in Albuquerque in the New Mexico area of finding kids.
But these are 75 kids that want to go to A&M, almost all of them, good academic standing, good background, good extracurricular activities.
Not all are going to go in the military, but they want to be in the Corps.
And you have to talk to the parents and say, well, we can help you out your freshman, sophomore year, but your junior and senior year, you're going to be paying full ride unless you can get a scholarship to some other place.
For us out of state, it would be great if there was a follow-on Saul Ross for those kids because it is a, I mean, a $1,000 annual scholarship is worth $8,000 or $7,000 to these kids here.
And we've got some great kids from here who are going to A&M.
So anyway, that's what I would probably do is put in a scholarship fund for out-of-state kids.
All right.
To what former students or faculty or advisors do you feel most grateful for what they meant to you?
What individuals?
Dr. Rodenberger, for one, for the help he gave me in mentoring me my senior year and then being my advisor when I was getting my master's.
I'm just trying to think of some of the process and the Aero Department who I had most contact with.
Mr. Lowy.
That's about it.
What have we left out?
I'm trying to think.
Did I have some other stuff I was going to talk about?
Oh, one of the other, just a story, you know, that they don't do that anymore, but we used to steal Seale's footlockers.
Oh, yeah, yeah.
You know, our freshman year.
All right, now how did you get it?
How did you get it out of his room?
We stole a passkey, or we got a passkey.
Of course, the big thing in those days was to get a passkey.
We got a passkey.